---------------------------------------------------
| Name: Cameron Hildebrandt,1584696
| Name: Kyle Wiskel, 1540485
| CMPUT 274, Fall 2018
| Final Project - Arduino Music Player; README
---------------------------------------------------

Included Files:
  arduinoMusicPlayer.cpp
  arduinoMusicPlayerDisplay.cpp
  Songs.zip
  Makefile


Libraries Used:
  - Arduino.h                   -- Arduino Library
  - Adafruit_GFX.h              -- Core Graphics Library
  - Adafruit_ILI9341.h          -- Hardware-Specific Display Library
  - TouchScreen.h               -- Touchscreen Library
  - Fonts/FreeSansBold18pt7b.h  -- Display Font
  - Fonts/FreeSans9pt7b.h       -- Display Font
  - SD.h                        -- Library to Read/Write to SD Cards
  - TMRpcm.h                    -- Audio Library for Asynchronous Playback


Assumptions:
  - The user has some experience using Arduinos and understands the basics of
    an Arduino board
  - The user has a basic understanding of the command line.


Program Functionality:
  The program allows you to turn your Arduino and Adafruit tft display into
  a touchscreen music player. When you first start the program, the display
  Arduino will display a message sating that it is awaiting connection to the
  player Arduino. Once a connection between the two has been established, the
  program will open the home screen, where you can select one of the four song
  to play. This will open the visualizer page and begin playing the music.
  When you are done playing the song, or at any time that you wish, you can
  press the back button, which will not stop the music from playing but will
  bring you back to the home screen, where you can select another song to play.


Running Instructions:
  The code for the display Arduino is to be compiled and uploaded to the
  Arduino using the Makefile. The code for the player Arduino must be compiled
  and uploaded using the Arduino IDE.

  Upload the songs in the included Songs.zip file on to an SD card, and place
  the card into the player Arduino.

  Press the reset button on the player Arduino first and then press the reset
  button on the display Arduino. You will see a "Connecting to player..."
  notification, which should quickly be replaced with a "Connection
  Successful!" notification, followed by the home screen being drawn.

  Follow the onscreen prompts to run the rest of the program.

  Note: Since the visualizer page needs to be run on a loop and drawing the
        visualizer takes an unfortunately large amount of time, the back button
        must be held until the loop has been completed at least once.



Arduino Pieces Required:
  - 2x Arduino Mega 2560
  - 1x Adafruit 2.4" TFT LCD Display (SPI Mode)
  - 1x SD Card Reader
  - 1x Speaker (any speaker that uses positive and negative inputs will work)
  - 1x SD card preloaded with properly formatted .wav files
  - 21x Jumper Wires


Arduino Wiring Instructions:
  Display to display Arduino:
    Display --- Arduino
      GND   ---   GND
      Vin   ---   5V
      CLK   ---   D52  (D52 == Digital Pin 52)
      MISO  ---   D50
      MOSI  ---   D51
      CS    ---   D36
      D/C   ---   D37
      Y+    ---   A2
      X+    ---   D9
      Y-    ---   D8
      X-    ---   A3

  SD Card Reader to player Arduino:
     Reader --- Arduino
      GND   ---  ICSP6
      MOSI  ---  ICSP4
      MISO  ---  ICSP1
      CS    ---   D10
      CLK   ---  ICSP3


  Speaker to player Arduino:
    Speaker --- Arduino
      GND   ---   GND
      POS   ---   D6

  Player Arduino to display Arduino:
     Player --- Display
      GND   ---   GND
      TX3   ---   RX3
      RX3   ---   TX3


Known Limitations:
  - We were unable to read the raw amplitude data from the .wav file and pass
    that to the display Arduino, so the DFT does not represent the songs
    playing. The visualizer can display a randomized DFT (either a randomized
    input or output) or specific frequencies from generating a pure sin wave.
  - The transform used is a DFT, which is an n squared algorithm, could be
    made faster by instead implementing an FFT algorithm, which preforms in
    n log n time.
  - The song data is hard coded. We were able to read the song information
    from the .wav file header and send it over to the display Arduino, but
    unfortunately we were not able to get the song information into the
    functions responsible for displaying the names.

    Note: Hopefully these small pitfalls can be overlooked based on the
          relatively high complexity of our project, as operations such as
          DFT and reading the header of the .wav file took a lot of time.


Planned Features:
  - Player Arduino passes song names and artists to the display Arduino.
  - Player Arduino passes the amplitudes of the song to be Fourier transformed
    and visualized.
  - Allow a variable amount of songs and use a joystick to scroll through
    the home page.
  - Colour picker for the visualizer gradient.
  - Speeding up the display by remembering it's current state and only
    drawing the necessary pixels when clearing the display.


References:
  Fourier Transform:
  - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cooley–Tukey_FFT_algorithm
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mkGsMWi_j4Q
  - https://2captiv8.blogspot.com/2016/06/howto-design-code-music-
    visualization-visualizer-audio-linux-c-sdl-fourier.html
